What's Happening October edition (#7500)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/blog/extension-news-october-2023/index.md

---
layout: 'layouts/blog-post.njk'
title: What's happening in Chrome Extensions?
description: >

>  An overview of the changes so far this year in Chrome Extensions, plus exciting upcoming extension features developers can look forward to.

Reviewer: >so far this year

Do you mean this quarter? If you say 'recent changes' you won't need to remember to update it every time.

Author: Great suggestion 💯 !!! Let's go with recent changed 👍

>  An overview of the changes so far this year in Chrome Extensions, plus exciting upcoming extension features developers can look forward to.

Author: ```suggestion
 An overview of the recent changes in Chrome Extensions, plus exciting upcoming extension features developers can look forward to.
```

date: 2023-10-13
authors:
  - amysteam
tags:
  - extensions-news
hero: 'image/BhuKGJaIeLNPW9ehns59NfwqKxF2/zHJnWcckEKIRCdXOGYNo.png'
alt: >
  What's happening in Chrome extensions?
---

Back in July, we launched [a new blog series](/blog/extension-news-july-2023/) to keep you up-to-date on extension developments. Thanks to your valuable feedback and our ongoing collaboration with fellow browser vendors in the WebExtensions Community Group, we continue to enhance extension APIs and work towards greater consistency across browsers.

Welcome to the October edition! In this post, we will look at some of the changes the Chrome extension team has made in the past few months, as well as some new features that will come out later this year. Let's get started!

{% Aside %}

> If you’d like a TL;DR, feel free to jump to the [Coming soon...](#coming-soon-apis) section for new extension features you can start looking forward to 🙂.

Author: I'd like to leave this as is, but thanks for the suggestion

> If you’d like a TL;DR, feel free to jump to the [Coming soon...](#coming-soon-apis) section for new extension features you can start looking forward to 🙂.

Reviewer: I'm not quibbling with your word choice, per se. I don't understand it's function in the sentence.

- **TabCapture API** Added the ability to call `getMediaStreamId()` from the extension service worker and obtain a MediaStream from a stream ID in an offscreen document in Chrome 116. See [Audio recording and screen capture](/docs/extensions/mv3/screen_capture/) for examples.
- **DeclarativeNetRequest API:** The default value for the [isUrlFilterCaseSensitive](/docs/extensions/reference/declarativeNetRequest/#property-RuleCondition-isUrlFilterCaseSensitive) property was changed to `false` in [Chrome 118](https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/commit/d90e6a56d0e77ce5d278a5b070098c5d8f7081fd).

### Coming soon... {: #coming-soon-apis }

Upcoming Chrome versions will release features that will complete the remaining items on the [known issues page](/docs/extensions/migrating/known-issues/#closing-the-platform-gap). Additionally, we plan to add the following features:

> - The **UserScripts API** will allow user script managers to coordinate how and when to inject a collection of user scripts into web pages. Currently available in Canary [behind a flag](/docs/extensions/reference/userscripts). See the [WECG proposal](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/blob/main/proposals/user-scripts-api.md) for details. 

Author: @oliverdunk thoughts on removing the WECG proposal?

> - The **UserScripts API** will allow user script managers to coordinate how and when to inject a collection of user scripts into web pages. Currently available in Canary [behind a flag](/docs/extensions/reference/userscripts). See the [WECG proposal](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/blob/main/proposals/user-scripts-api.md) for details. 

Reviewer 2: Will it be in Canary by the time we publish this?

> - The **UserScripts API** will allow user script managers to coordinate how and when to inject a collection of user scripts into web pages. Currently available in Canary [behind a flag](/docs/extensions/reference/userscripts). See the [WECG proposal](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/blob/main/proposals/user-scripts-api.md) for details. 

Author: @oliverdunk and I spoke offsite and decided to leave the link to WECG. There comment on the availability is still TBD. We'll have more info later today or early tomorrow. I'm resolving this for now. Let's talk more offsite.

- The **ReadingList API** will allow developers to create, read, update, and delete metadata located in the Reading List panel of the side panel. See the [ReadingList API proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1f1wW2955nY5Rp3vfS0JGuo1kACOAmsjZupvLYknWKII/) and [Chromium Bug](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=1421058) for details.

> - The number of **DeclarativeNetRequest API** static and enabled rulesets will be increased in Chrome 120. Currently available in Canary.

Reviewer: I left out a "(". Sorry about that.

- We added more guidance for [migrating remotely hosted code to Manifest V3](/docs/extensions/migrating/improve-security/). Plus, to minimize the risk of encountering issues during the release, we offer strategies for [Publishing your Manifest V3 extension](/docs/extensions/migrating/publish-mv3/) in stages.
- Learn how to connect to a [WebSocket in your extension's service worker](/docs/extensions/mv3/tut_websockets/).
- We expanded our [Get Help guide](/docs/extensions/support-feedback/) to include more detailed instructions on how to file a bug, keep track of existing issues, request new features, and more. 

### Coming soon... {: #coming-soon-docs }

- User Scripts API reference and tutorial.
- Firebase tutorial and samples.
- ReadingList API reference.

## Redesigning the Chrome Web store 🌈 {: #cws-redesign }

<figure>
  {% Img src="image/sQ51XsLqKMgSQMCZjIN0B7hlBO02/Hl9EIC00L5beXdmY1t07.png", alt="Screenshot of the Chrome Web Store home page.", width="800", height="536", class='screenshot' %}.
  <figcaption>
    The new Chrome Web Store home page
  </figcaption>
</figure>

> Earlier this month, we announced an early preview of the revamped Chrome Web Store, as we hinted at Google I/O. Check it out for yourself! [https://chromewebstore.google.com/](https://chromewebstore.google.com/). A few noteworthy changes are:

Author: I want to check this wording with David, because it's still in preview. It's not officially launched as the default page.

> Earlier this month, we announced an early preview of the revamped Chrome Web Store, as we hinted at Google I/O. Check it out for yourself! [https://chromewebstore.google.com/](https://chromewebstore.google.com/). A few noteworthy changes are:

Reviewer: They missed something then. If it's in preview, then everyone can't see it. This text gives the impression that they can, the word 'preview' notwithstanding.

> Earlier this month, we announced an early preview of the revamped Chrome Web Store, as we hinted at Google I/O. Check it out for yourself! [https://chromewebstore.google.com/](https://chromewebstore.google.com/). A few noteworthy changes are:

Author: I'm using all the wording used in the [PSA of this Preview rollout](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/chromium-extensions/c/9lc7Prf9vLk).

> Earlier this month, we announced an early preview of the revamped Chrome Web Store, as we hinted at Google I/O. Check it out for yourself! [https://chromewebstore.google.com/](https://chromewebstore.google.com/). A few noteworthy changes are:

Reviewer 2: Everyone can visit the new web store on the new URL, but it is still being branded using the word "Preview" - see the banner at the top left of https://chromewebstore.google.com/ for example. I think we should keep this for now and chat internally if we disagree with the overall approach to naming.

Thanks for everyone's input so far on the [chromium-google group](https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/g/chromium-extensions/c/9lc7Prf9vLk/m/3trCFBWYAQAJ). Feel free to join in the discussion or send your feedback directly to the CWS team using the **Give feedback** menu item:

<figure>
  {% Img src="image/BhuKGJaIeLNPW9ehns59NfwqKxF2/ERwUa61uGIFQ65VUgsVn.png", alt="Give feedback in the Chrome Web Store page", width="400", height="323", class='screenshot' %}
  <figcaption>
    Giving feedback on the Chrome Web Store page
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Additionally, you can [submit a self-nomination form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSf4goBOeJDSVwp7xGCZw5vORovPOBhCv_kWM-VXWDhSA0NUQg/viewform) to be featured in the Editors’ Picks collection. Stay tuned for improvements coming soon to the developer dashboard as well!

## 💡 Did you know? {: #tips }

- There's a new video on Debugging Chrome extensions. It covers many topics you may already be familiar with, but it also shares a few neat tricks for using the Devtools in extensions.
    {% YouTube id='Ta-YTDhiBIQ' %}

> - You can now add one privacy policy per extension. Previously, you could only add one privacy policy per developer account, but it was awkward if you had a few extensions under one developer account. This new interface is available in the **Privacy Tab** of your item in the developer dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You are now required to provide a privacy policy for each extension. Previously, you could only add one privacy policy per developer account, but it was awkward if you had a few extensions under one developer account. This new interface is available in the **Privacy Tab** of your item in the developer dashboard. Account-level privacy policies are no longer supported.
```

>   {% Img src="image/sQ51XsLqKMgSQMCZjIN0B7hlBO02/BB2ziYwins4YpyJ7aETj.png", alt="Screenshot of the privacy policy box", width="674", height="178" %}

Reviewer: Caption?

Author: DOne

---

Back in July, we launched [a new blog series](/blog/extension-news-july-2023/) to keep you up-to-date on extension developments. Thanks to your valuable feedback and our ongoing collaboration with fellow browser vendors in the WebExtensions Community Group, we continue to enhance extension APIs and work towards greater consistency across browsers.

Welcome to the October edition! In this post, we'll look at some of the changes the Chrome extension team has made in the past few months, as well as some new features that'll come out later this year. Let's get started!

{% Aside %}

If you’d like a TL;DR, feel free to jump to the [Coming soon...](#coming-soon-apis) section for new extension features you can start looking forward to 🙂.

{% endAside %}

## New extension APIs and features {: #new-apis }

In this section, we share some significant API launches, briefly review other API improvements, and share upcoming releases. All launches are currently available in the latest Beta release. See the [chromium release schedule](https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/schedule) for details.

### Highlights {: #apis-highlights }

#### Resolved known issues {: #closing-gap }

> The extension team has been actively working to resolve Manifest V3 stability issues. [Chrome 116 launched many improvements](/blog/chrome-116-beta-whats-new-for-extensions/) that helped us make significant progress toward closing the feature gap between Manifest V2 and V3. In Chrome 120, we will have finished addressing all our prioritized platform gaps and closed all critical bugs that are documented on the [known issues page](/docs/extensions/migrating/known-issues/). All features are currently available in Chrome 120 Canary, except fileHandler support for ChromeOS Lacros, which will land later this month. For more details, check out the updated [known issues page](/docs/extensions/migrating/known-issues/).

Author: ```suggestion
The extension team has been actively working to resolve Manifest V3 stability issues. [Chrome 116 launched many improvements](/blog/chrome-116-beta-whats-new-for-extensions/) that helped us make significant progress toward closing the feature gap between Manifest V2 and V3. In Chrome 120, we will have finished addressing all our prioritized platform gaps and closed all critical bugs that are documented on the [known issues page](/docs/extensions/migrating/known-issues/). All features are currently available in Chrome 120 Canary, except fileHandler support for ChromeOS Lacros, and the userScripts API which will land later this month. Check out the updated [known issues page](/docs/extensions/migrating/known-issues/) for more details.
```

Author: @sebastianbenz WDTY? If you want to change it further LMK

Reviewer 3: one nit: s/In Chrome 120, we will have finished addressing/In Chrome 120, we plan to finish addressing/

#### Improved Service Worker stability {: #stable-sw }

Service worker-related stability issues have been resolved. In Chrome 116, we added strong keep-alives to extension APIs that [display a user prompt](/blog/chrome-116-beta-whats-new-for-extensions/#sw-keepalive) and improved support for WebSockets (see the [Using WebSockets in extensions](/docs/extensions/mv3/tut_websockets/) tutorial). From Chrome 118 onward, a service worker will stay alive during an [active Debugger API session](/docs/extensions/reference/debugger/).

Check out our updated [Service Worker guidance](/docs/extensions/mv3/service_workers/service-worker-lifecycle/#timeouts) for more details. If your users still encounter service worker-related stability issues in Chrome versions after 119, [please let us know](/docs/extensions/support-feedback/).  

#### Increased security {: #security-increase }

> Previously, navigating to some chrome:// URLs using [`tabs.update()`](/docs/extensions/reference/tabs/#method-update), [`tabs.create`](/docs/extensions/reference/tabs/#method-create), and [`windows.create()`](/docs/extensions/reference/windows/#method-create) emitted an error or would crash Chrome. Also, [`tabs.update()`](/docs/extensions/reference/tabs/#method-update) couldn't open a Javascript URL. In Chrome 117, we expanded the number of supported chrome:// URLs, and the Javascript URL blocking now also applies to all extension API methods.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Previously, navigating to some `chrome://` URLs using [`tabs.update()`](/docs/extensions/reference/tabs/#method-update), [`tabs.create`](/docs/extensions/reference/tabs/#method-create), and [`windows.create()`](/docs/extensions/reference/windows/#method-create) emitted an error or would crash Chrome. Also, [`tabs.update()`](/docs/extensions/reference/tabs/#method-update) couldn't open a Javascript URL. In Chrome 117, we expanded the number of supported `chrome://` URLs, and the Javascript URL blocking now also applies to all extension API methods.
```

In Chrome 117, users will receive proactive notifications on the Chrome Extensions page if an extension they've installed is no longer available on the Chrome Web Store. This can happen if the developer unpublishes the extension, it's taken down for policy violations, or it's identified as malware. For a deep dive, see [Bringing Safety Check to the chrome://extensions page](/en/blog/extension-safety-hub/).

> In Chrome 118, extensions will not be allowed to navigate to file:// URLs using the `chrome.tabs` and `chrome.windows` APIs unless the “Allow access to file URLs” option is enabled on the extension’s details page. See the [WECG discussion](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/426).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In Chrome 118, extensions will not be allowed to navigate to `file://` URLs using the `chrome.tabs` and `chrome.windows` APIs unless the “Allow access to file URLs” option is enabled on the extension’s details page. See the [WECG discussion](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/426).
```

### More API launches {: #apis-others }

- **Runtime API:** Starting in Chrome 116, you can use [`runtime.getContexts()`](/docs/extensions/reference/runtime/#method-getContexts) to retrieve information about active contexts. For example, you can check if there's an [active offscreen document](/docs/extensions/reference/offscreen/#example-maintaining-the-lifecycle-of-an-offscreen-document).

> - **Side Panel API** In [Chrome 116](https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/commit/8e7430446eaa0b80964b0ab1fd816ac6f33fd4cd) you can use [`sidepanel.open()`](/docs/extensions/reference/sidepanel/#user-interaction), to open the extension side panel programmatically in response to a user gesture, such as a context menu click.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Side Panel API** In [Chrome 116](https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/commit/8e7430446eaa0b80964b0ab1fd816ac6f33fd4cd) you can use [`sidepanel.open()`](/docs/extensions/reference/sidepanel/#user-interaction) to open the extension side panel programmatically in response to a user gesture, such as a context menu click.
```

> - **Side Panel API** In [Chrome 116](https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/commit/8e7430446eaa0b80964b0ab1fd816ac6f33fd4cd) you can use [`sidepanel.open()`](/docs/extensions/reference/sidepanel/#method-open), to open the extension side panel programmatically in response to a user gesture, such as a context menu click. See an extension sample here

Author: ```suggestion
- **Side Panel API** In [Chrome 116](https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/commit/8e7430446eaa0b80964b0ab1fd816ac6f33fd4cd) you can use [`sidepanel.open()`](/docs/extensions/reference/sidepanel/#user-interaction), to open the extension side panel programmatically in response to a user gesture, such as a context menu click.
```

- **TabCapture API** Added the ability to call `getMediaStreamId()` from the extension service worker and obtain a [`MediaStream`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/MediaStream) object from a stream ID in an offscreen document in Chrome 116. See [Audio recording and screen capture](/docs/extensions/mv3/screen_capture/) for examples.
- **DeclarativeNetRequest API:** The default value for the [`isUrlFilterCaseSensitive`](/docs/extensions/reference/declarativeNetRequest/#property-RuleCondition-isUrlFilterCaseSensitive) property was changed to `false` in [Chrome 118](https://chromiumdash.appspot.com/commit/d90e6a56d0e77ce5d278a5b070098c5d8f7081fd).

### Coming soon... {: #coming-soon-apis }

> Upcoming Chrome versions will release features that will complete the remaining items on the [known issues page](/docs/extensions/migrating/known-issues/#closing-the-platform-gap). Additionally, we plan to add the following features:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We plan to address all remaining items on the [known issues page](/docs/extensions/migrating/known-issues/#closing-the-platform-gap) with the release of Chrome 120. Additionally, we plan to add the following features:
```

- The **UserScripts API** will allow user script managers to coordinate how and when to inject a collection of user scripts into web pages. Currently available in Canary [behind a flag](/docs/extensions/reference/userscripts). See the [WECG proposal](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/blob/main/proposals/user-scripts-api.md) for details. 
- The **ReadingList API** will allow developers to create, read, update, and delete metadata located in the Reading List panel of the side panel. Watch [What's new in Chrome extensions](/docs/extensions/whatsnew/) for the announcement.

> - The number of **DeclarativeNetRequest API** static and enabled rulesets will be increased in Chrome 120. Currently available in Canary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Following [feedback](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/318) in the Web Extensions Community Group, we are significantly increasing the limit on enabled static rulesets from 10 to 50. Additionally, we are increasing the total number of allowed static rulesets from 50 to 100. This is currently available in Canary.
```

> - The **File Handling API:** is will be available for ChromeOS extensions starting in ChromeOS 120, which lets extensions open files with specified MIME types and file extensions in a similar manner to web platform file handling.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The **File Handling API:** will be available for ChromeOS extensions starting in ChromeOS 120, which lets extensions open files with specified MIME types and file extensions in a similar manner to web platform file handling.
```

> - Extensions will be able to use the web [Push API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Push_API) via [self.registration.pushManager.subscribe()](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/PushManager/subscribe) without showing a user-visible notification by setting `userVisibleOnly` to `false`. This will make push notifications a more seamless alternative to WebSockets in service workers (MV3) for asynchronous client-server communication. See [Chromium bug](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=1319986) and [WECG discussion](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/208) for details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Extensions will be able to use the web [Push API](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Push_API) via [`self.registration.pushManager.subscribe()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/PushManager/subscribe) without showing a user-visible notification by setting `userVisibleOnly` to `false`. This will make push notifications a more seamless alternative to WebSockets in service workers (MV3) for asynchronous client-server communication. See [Chromium bug](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=1319986) and [WECG discussion](https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/issues/208) for details.
```
